# What is PKT Network?
The Packet Network is a decentralized media network. It is built to enable global accessibility for content and websites. The network is powered by the cjdns mesh networking protocol, featuring censorship-resistance and no geo-restrictions.

The Packet Network represents a transformative approach to media distribution, fundamentally redefining how content is shared and monetized across the globe. Packet leverages the robust cjdns mesh networking protocol, and an innovative domain name system to offer globally accessible, free domains for life. This facilitates a secure, peer-to-peer, censorship-resistant platform. Creators and audiences can share and consume media content on Packet Network without interference from centralized authorities or limitations imposed by traditional media distribution channels.

At the heart of Packet Network's innovation is its DePIN (Decentralized Physical Infrastructure) model. This incentivizes individuals across the world to contribute to and power the network's infrastructure. This community-driven approach not only decentralizes the control and maintenance of the network but also enhances its resilience and scalability. Contributors are rewarded through Packet’s Stake-to-Earn protocol, where participants lock up their PKT tokens and pair with infrastructure nodes that support network routing and operation. In return, operators are rewarded with daily yields based on the duration and amount of their stake. This incentivization scheme aligns individual interests with the overall health and growth of the network, promoting long-term commitment, continuity, and stability.

Packet Network is payment system agnostic. There are no limitations or preferences between using traditional payment systems or any kind of cryptocurrency. However, users must stake PKT to acquire domains as well as to earn Stake-to-Earn rewards. In kind, platforms and media creators that operate on the Packet Network can choose to integrate Packet’s native PKT currency to receive compensation directly from their audience, bypassing traditional payment processors and minimizing transaction fees. This integration of decentralized media distribution, with seamless, transparent, payment solutions, empowers creators, enriches the user experience, and paves the way for a new era of media consumption that is truly global, open, and unrestricted.